Here we go.
Linear model.
So then let's start with something really
basic.
So can someone tell me what kind of
linear models do you guys know?
Hey folks, you can you guys hear me?
Yeah, we can hear you.
I just don't know any linear Mohammed.
Oh, OK, OK, sounds.
Yeah,
we had some examples in our data
analytics class.
I know people in Ba need to take that,
Sure.
but outside of that, not much.
Yeah.
OK.
Let's see.
Let's start with some basic stats.
So I put some charts here.
There's some basic stats you you you need
to know, right?
So the the mean which is which is called
average, that's the time year average.
So average is basically you have
different numbers and then you you want
to divide by the total numbers that you
have seen.
So not gonna give you an average right so
then.
The the median is really the middle value
of the data.
And the standard deviation.
Correlation. So out of curiosity.
I know a lot of people like have a
business background.
You guys use a lot of Excel.
They just make sure there's just
demonstrate those numbers in Excel, OK.
Let me just say some random numbers.
Maybe four. OK.
So if we do have those numbers here,
let's say this is 123, then let's see.
Those are time and then or this is a
price, right?
And and how how do you calculate average
on on on Excel?
Equals average.
Yeah. So equals average.
So they're not gonna give you the average
price.
We can't.
Your screen anymore, Eric.
Oh, you cannot see my screen anymore.
Oh.
Sorry.
Good call.
Can you see that?
OK. OK, sorry, sorry about that.
Maybe I should switch to a Windows laptop?
OK.
So. So I'm sorry,
I just generate some random numbers rise
on time stamps are here,
and then you have the price data and then.
Folks are still using Excel to to do a
lot of things and then average is because
they're just average of those,
and then you just type the average
function. You have those right?
So then how do you calculate the median?
I'm pretty sure you guys know it because
median.
Sequels, median.
Of those numbers, right?
So there's no those numbers.
So can someone tell me what's the
difference between an average and median?
Apparently,
this average and median are not equal.
Right.
So what's the difference between average
and median?
Median is like the middle number of the
data set and average is all of them
summed and divided by their quantity.
Yeah. So right.
So then average is sort of like whatever
you take everything into account and
divide by how many time stands over there.
So how many observations right?
So median is really like you have.
You have a bunch of numbers,
you sort them from highest to lowest or
lowest to highest or whatever in the
middle, right?
So then just sort of like you calculate
the average income and then?
You I sit next to.
Elon Musk.
Our average income gonna be really high.
However,
I cannot make that not amount of money.
So then the average will be.
I mistakenly.
Inflate the numbers and the median is
really telling you whatever the number in
between, right?
So if you have 10 of me and you the mask,
you know the average really, really high,
just because I'm a little earn a lot of
money,
but the median going to tell the true
case that you know,
from those 11 folks and then average
income is really.
Not that high, OK.
And what is standard deviation?
And what a standard deviation really
telling us.
Someone someone knows how to calculate
standard deviation in Excel?
Yeah, equals St.
D EV. And then there's like P or S.
Correct.
Right.
So the standard deviation gonna be like
12:00 and 8:00.
So what does it really tell us?
It's like how close.
Like how much the numbers are varying
throughout the data set.
Sure.
And then is it from the mean or from the
average?
Is it from the median or from the average?
It's not.
From those from the average.
It's from.
Sorry, I have two wises.
Heyverage.
So from the average right?
Average.
So then yes,
so you you can check the the formula of a
standard deviation.
You know that it's it's a really like a
volatility from the average.
Another question is, does so let's say.
I I put the price as let's say the
dollars, right? So the dollars so.
Dollars here.
What is the unit of this average?
Does it have a unit?
Dollars.
Yes. So so dollars.
Course.
And then the median those dollars.
Does this standard deviation has a has a
unit have a unit?
No.
OK.
So that's basic difference between
standard deviation and variance.
Do you guys know what variance is?
OK, so as a quick review,
the variance is really standard deviation
squared. OK,
so the variance is this guy and this
number squared.
So standard deviation why people love to
use standard deviation because it has the
same it has the same unit as the numbers
that you're you.
You're you're dealing with, OK?
So if your your numbers are your your
your data is of those those dollars.
And the standard deviation is also
dollars.
So we were talking about is we have a
data set.
That is 12.8 dollars away from $8.
That's how we read it.
OK, however, variance as as.
As a metric or as a statistic,
it does not have a.
It does not have the same unit, right?
If you argue we can score with dollar
squared, I have no idea what that is.
So then usually we just believe like
variance does not have any.
Does not have any unit at all, OK.
So standard deviation has unit the same
unit as the as the as the data set
variance does not have any.
Unit people are talking about correlation.
What is?
What is a correlation and correlation and
covariance?
So what's the?
What's the difference between the
correlation and covariance?
So that's saying this is a first price
data and that's the another price data.
That's I'm just making up.
So let's say another price data is also
dollars.
OK.
And people are talking about, OK.
Let's calculate a correlation.
I'm pretty sure you guys heard that
request quite often.
And the question being,
why are we calculating the correlation?
What does even correlation mean?
It's like how related one set of units is
to another.
Yeah.
So so that's that's a statue of graph,
right?
So then this guy and.
This guy. Gosh.
And OK, here we go.
I just put a big number here.
Do you think those two?
Price data are correlated or not?
This is better.
Of correlated right?
Because when this is going up,
another data is also going up.
When this data going down is going down
South, basically correlation is away.
How we manage this kind of a relationship
when one data is going higher or lower?
Does the other data go in the same
direction?
So if you use Excel,
you just use this function to calculate
correlation between.
Those two signals.
So they're gonna give you an active
correlation.
So what does this negative correlation
mean?
So what?
What is what usually is the range of the
correlation.
Is this like a number between 01?
Is the number from between -1 to one or
is the number between -100 to 100?
-1 to one.
That is correct.
So this is a number between -1 to one. OK,
so.
I I know. Yeah, I know.
I'm running a formula. OK, OK.
So from -1 to 1.
So quotation is a number between -1 to 1.
So what?
What does? What does one mean?
What does correlation equal to 1 mean?
Means they're perfectly positively
correlated.
They're perfectly positive correlated,
meaning like one girl, one getting bigger,
another one automatic,
growing bigger and then.
One going down, another one going down.
So can you guys give me one example that?
Two signals are perfectly correlated.
And any example?
Probably the price of crude oil and the
price of gasoline.
Oh yeah, that's that's a great idea.
That's a great idea, right?
Because, yeah,
the price of crude oil going up and then
automatically we have to pay more, right?
So then that's pretty much like 100%
correlated, OK.
So what does -1 means?
Like what's that is A1 means a perfectly
positively correlated and a -.
1 will be perfectly negatively correlated.
Can you guys tell me one example that?
Two signals are perfectly and actively
correlated.
Like demand and supply,
where demand goes up, supply decreases.
And when supply goes up, demand decreases.
I think I think I will say they are
correlated,
but not necessarily in their their yeah,
I I I think I know you're talking about
is the supply demand kind of curve, right?
So then you you you virtually find a
price because of you know the the supply.
Is when price go up the demand,
the supply going up so then so supply and
the price are perfectly positively
correlated because As for as from a
supplier perspective.
Whenever the price going up,
I want to provide more, right?
OK.
I want to produce more. However,
for demand, usually demand is.
Correlated because when price going up
and then I have I have a limited number
of limited amount of money I can spend,
right?
So then when the price going up and I and
I can buy less so then demand and and
price usually are are negatively
correlated.
So then when one is positively correlated,
another one is negative.
Related to have a cross where that cross
is how we determine the price, right?
So then I'm pretty sure you guys learn
that from the macro economy, right?
Right. So it's a yeah, demand demand.
Demand supply demand supply curve.
Good.
What does?
What does 0 mean?
Because you we talk about -1,
we talk about one and then and then
there's a 1 #0 in between.
What does 0 even mean?
Well, does correlation equal to 0?
Knock or?
No, no correl, no correlation.
I I hear you.
And then what does no correlation mean?
Can can it give me one one example that
two signals have no correlation?
Well,
arguably that's the easiest example to
find.
Shoe size and temperature.
Oh, exactly right.
So you just pulled to unrelated things
together, right? So then.
The shoe size and and and temperature
right.
So yeah, they have no correlation at all.
They have no correlation at all.
So so there is one thing that I have to
remind you around this correlation idea.
So what's the difference between
correlation and causation?
Are they the same?
No,
correlation is just the relationship on
how the variables move together,
and causation would imply that one causes
the other to move.
Yeah, that.
So the causation is really saying that A
caused B or B is caused by A and
correlation could be some really
coincidence that they haven't succeeded
each other and then they may not have any
relationship at all.
So there is a common mistake that people
made is even in in, in finance, right?
So then some folks track.
You know the CEOs, CEOs,
mood when when the CEO entered the the
press release.
Does he look good or does he look not so
good?
Then use that as a feature to create to,
to to predict the stock price.
Arguably, I would say this is a really,
maybe sometimes they find if the CEO
looks really happy that shows the stock
price going to be higher and then the the
CEO does not look very happy.
Maybe that stock price going lower where
the performance going bad.
So I will argue that's a correlation.
And not causation.
Because even though this the the, the,
the CEO can be happy or not happy for a
variety of reasons that has, you know,
the stock price is now driven by a
person's mood,
although that is the most important
person arguably in one company so.
I would argue that's a correlation
instead of that's a causation causation.
OK, so however, like.
A lot of chances.
A lot of chances and people are mixing
those two concepts together.
And they consider all the correlation and
construction are the same,
but they are really not OK.
So I think those are quick review of
those basic concepts. That was,
there is some charts that are showing you
what what positive correlation is and
what.
Perfectly inactive correlation really is
and.
And arguably, as you can see,
there's a positive,
perfectly perfect correlation of one.
This is a.
This is a line and here is a line.
This looks like a line.
So then you can fit this data with a line.
So that's why we are calling those a
linear model,
but some of the data like this,
it doesn't look like Aw and this look
like a smiling face.
It looks like an X and circle,
so it's really really hard for any line
to fit in this data.
So then you will eventually require.
To use some nonlinear models to model
those.
Because they if even if you calculate the
correlation they should show you no
correlation at all.
So then usually this is the area that the
linear model cannot have cannot handle
this and then you may use some really
advanced technology called neural network
to deal with this so.
Then we we can touch base on that.
Later in this course in a in a neural
network piece,
and then you can experiment how to fit in
those regions, which is really cool.
I'll show you some visualization on that.
OK, another thing let's see is.
Hypothesis task ahead, anyone?
Took any stat class.
Learn this hypothesis test at all.
Who? Who learn this just quick.
Check anyone knows?
Hypothesis test.
Yeah, I did. In my stats class,
but that was like four years ago or so.
OK, OK.
Adriak knows this.
And then any other folks learn hypothesis
test before?
OK, so hypothesis test is like.
A strategy that you use in a lot of cases,
right?
In a lot of cases, so for example.
A more scientific approach of this is
really.
You wanna give a guess?
You, you you wanna test something,
you wanna guess something?
For example,
I can say the average daily return on
SP500 is.
Five basis point.
That is showing here.
So this is my hypothesis, I say.
I I read the data.
I analyze the data 5SP500.
I say it is this out of those samples and
I analyze the standard deviation of those
samples like this.
So then I say.
I believe SP500 daily return will be
bigger than one basis point.
So this is one one person's opinion.
So I believe if I invest in SP500 I
should get.
Daily compounding one basis point back.
Is that a correct opinion that can be
proven by the data you collected or not?
And how are you going to deal with it?
Because in your work in your study,
I believe you, you,
you heard a lot of opinions from the
other folks saying I believe this I
believe that.
And how do you track?
Another opinion is correct.
O this one you have to use this
technology or this strategy is a
hypothesis task.
You will use the sample data that you
collected and you create.
Some distribution and you see whether or
not.
This the probability or likelihood.
This this hypothesis will happen.
If 95% of a chance that based upon you
know your your sample data you collected,
this will happen,
you have to say you know what.
I will have to say this is a a correct
opinion that is proven by the data I
collected.
However,
if there is only less than 95% of chance
that you happen,
you cannot say this is wrong.
So for example my my.
So there there are two things that in
this hypothesis task one thing is called
a null hypothesis.
Right on here.
So then I can share with you guys.
One thing is a null hypothesis.
I'll move the chart.
Non hypothesis is OK.
The SP500 daily return.
Is less than one basis point.
My alternative.
Hypothesis.
So this is OK now is wrong meaning.
The SP500 daily return is bigger than.
Than one basis point, OK.
So you will use the data that you have.
To either reject this non hypothesis or
not reject this non hypothesis.
In the case that you can reject this,
this oh gosh reject this non hypothesis.
You're pretty much saying that the
alternative hypothesis is correct.
If you cannot reject this null hypothesis,
you cannot say if this less.
Than one basis.
Or you cannot say this is a bigger than
one basis point, OK.
So then every decision or or opinion you
have to prove or disprove using the data
that you have.
So that is going to be a big mind change
that you gonna you're gonna learn from
this class. OK. As you can see,
I run a tea task.
I can reject the null hypothesis.
The true mean daily return is likely
greater than one basis point based upon
data.
OK.
So I run this test and I can tell you
SP500 daily return bigger than one sounds
correct and let me show you how I
verified that.
So as you can see,
I show you guys this data.
So then I just I just.
Import those this data from so I see that
I I read the data into this pandas data
frame.
So this is really like SP500 index here
which is awesome.
So then I was able to.
I was able to plot this chart to show me
OK SP500 index over time.
It does look like this.
So going up.
So use this function I can calculate OK.
So what is a mean return of the SP500?
So the mean return of the SV500 based
upon that data set is this.
Since I I believe I mouse by 100 here.
Give me a second.
Yeah, I multip by 100 here I calculate.
I calculated a daily percentage change.
So then the numbers you are seeing here
are already percentages,
so that the daily return of SP500 and by
the way, this is a daily return.
So this is overtime how the daily return
of SP500 looks like.
Up and down.
It does look like random walk.
So then you may ask me, OK,
what happened here?
So then my answer could be it is really
like 2008 financial crisis.
That really caused a daily return job to
dramatically on that day, but on average,
the SP500 return is pretty much A5 basis
point and the standard deviation of SP500
is a 1.1.
The basis point based upon this data and
also I mentioned that there is a
difference between.
Median and average oh.
It's still calculated the median of SB500.
That's a base six basis point versus 5
basis point as the average.
So it's not 100% centered at the,
at least not a normal distribution per SE.
So the median and average there are some
gap, OK.
So now I'm I'm trying to say OK.
Is this one bigger than 0?
So I can run this task to tell me this
significantly different to 0.
So this code I can change this zero to
one or or different numbers so then this
this code I run a ttask the ttask will
tell me that whether or not it is 0 or it
is A1.
Let me see if I can find this code on
Kaggle.
It's not what they the code notebooks.
This one.
Yeah, this one.
Let me just load reload the data.
So I'll just give you some time the the
virtual machine is starting OK.
Here we go.
We have the data.
We have the stocks that we have,
companies we have index the data I use is
really the index.
So then I can show you how the data looks
like.
OK.
So data is really like days from 2014 to
have and every single day you have other
index per day and then if you put a
number here within the half so then you
can show you can see more.
Data the top 50 rows of this data so you
can see here and then next I just plot a
chart I'm showing in a in a notebook,
right? So then.
Hopefully it doesn't have to redownload
this map outlook.
Yeah. So you see the chart.
So this from the beginning like 2014 two.
Honestly,
I have no idea what's the data and.
Update call here.
OK, to 2024 December 20th.
So this is the date.
And then was the mean starting point of
this data?
OK.
So starting from 2014 to 2024 is a 10
year more than 10 year worth of data,
which is good.
So the data index looks like this.
So what I did here is I calculated daily
changes.
Let me show you after I do this.
So I calculated for example this number
over this number and divided by 1.
So I know that as of 2040 December 23rd.
It actually increase 17 basis point
compared to the the index on December
22nd the 20/20/2014.
So this is showing us the return per day.
Of the SP500,
so this chart is showing us like.
So on every single day,
that's a plot that's returns.
And how does it look like?
And then you just look like a really
messy random walk chart like this.
So up or down,
up or down is across the 10 years and now
we calculate, OK.
So what's the average?
Like what I showed you 5 basis points and
the standard deviation 1.1.
The median.
The six basis point and then the simple
size we have 2005, 2500.
17 samples.
And now let's see. I want to know.
I want to determine whether this SP500
daily return is different to 0.
I want to know that.
So then I just use this code and I'm
running a ttask.
So in case if you don't enter you,
you're not familiar with the ttask the
concept I would highly recommend you to
to do some research after this class and
I can post some.
Article to D2D2 R So then you can learn
the other T task thing.
So what T ttask task is to verify the
proof of this proof.
The non hypothesis where in this case a
non hypothesis is.
I believe.
Let me draw right here.
So now I can share with you code.
But now is SP500.
Daily return.
A zero. I'm.
I'm saying that on average you invest in
SP500.
You don't receive any value.
And then what I'm trying to prove is
alternative is SP500 is not 0.
So then meaning you either so you can go
both ways, right?
So either earn money or either like
losing money.
But it's definitely not 0.
So then I run this test.
So these tasks analyze a lot of T tasks.
And Pyu stuff, whatever.
Eventually this task gonna give me is
based upon these 2517 data 17 data set
data point I collected.
Around this SP500 and then it just reject
the null hypothesis that it is 0.
So then you can just say, hey,
this is different from zero,
totally fine and then you can design some
tasks to prove that, OK.
So then it is not zero, that's OK.
So then I I invest my money in SP500 and
this it will change.
So,
but you want to prove that it is actually
changed positively,
so you can actually you can actually run
at Test saying hey the non hypothesis is
the data return is.
Let's say bigger than or let's say less
than.
Equal to.
One basis point.
And then alternative hypothesis is is
higher than.
One basis points,
so this analysis really making sense,
right?
So then,
because you don't wanna know whether it
is like.
Zero or not zero,
you want to know whether it really
provide you some positive results, right?
So then that's something you want to know.
So there is a difference between.
One side.
One side T task the versus two side T
task.
So you can run similar analysis to show
whether or not it is A1 basis point.
In this slides I already run it,
so I can say that the daily return is
likely greater than one basis point.
So then I run that test and this is a
chart that I can show you OK?
So you can do similar analysis to test on.
The SP500 data.
So this is a hypothesis test.
The point of introducing this is.
There are going to be some values that
we're going to use.
One of those values is.
The P value OK.
So the P value you're gonna see a lot of
pyus in a linear regression or different
regression models. As for you know,
from the linear regression models.
So you usually expect this Pyu to be less
than 5% or less than .
05 whenever the Pyu less than .05 we call.
That.
Variable or that?
Or that?
Past is significant statistically.
For example, in this Pyu that is 03.
So then you can sort of saying that you
can sort of say, OK,
whatever this task you're going to be
true 97 percent of a chance.
So then we use 95 as a bar and 1 -.
95 is really 5%.
So we are hoping this P value less than
5%.
So then we can say more than 95% of
chance these.
This value is significant.
Or these case is true,
it's definitely significant.
So this P value you're gonna see it a lot
in linear models.
And just remember the number that is
critical for P value is .05.
Any question?
All right.
So I believe we're gonna do a lot of
reviews around those concept.
So then let's talk about the regression
model as a first linear model, we learn.
I'll give you some examples,
but that's that's talk about this, right?
So then it is quite simple.
You have a.
You have a dependent variable Y.
You have a independent dependent variable
X.
So then you feed X into Y and then the Y
will be the outcome.
The X will be the income.
The the X will be the independent
variable which is the predictor.
Predictor and then you have Y equals
alpha plus beta X plus some error term.
So we residuals.
So this is a really simple regression.
And then we,
we call this beta slope and then we call
this alpha intercept.
So this is a linear regression model.
You you guys learn the linear regression
model like before. Before this class,
right?
Have you?
Yes.
OK.
So perfect, one person said.
Yes, thank you, Patrick.
Hello folks happy.
Yeah, I I did an undergrad.
Yeah.
I also have.
Yep, same here.
Nice. OK.
So you know this.
That's that's perfect, right?
So then.
I hope you know that you can actually run
a linear regression model on on on this.
Analytics tool.
So then.
On this excel right so that you can
quickly do this regression and then you
can say hey,
why why you let's say this Yu is ay.
And this Yu is the X right?
So then you and you can say OK the data
because I just selected from the first
row to the 10th row, I do have the label.
So you can collect the labels and then
you can say whether or not the alpha is 0.
Let's assume that alpha is a zero and
then here is something that.
You know you're seeing is the confident
level is 95%.
I say that let's say the output range is.
Let's put it here.
Like here and then you wanna see the
residuals.
You wanna see the standardized residuals
and then the those kind of things and
click OK.
Boom,
you have that style linear regression
model results.
In in Excel.
Umm, it's quite simple, right?
So you have those? Umm,
you have those fits.
And then you have a lot of concept like R
^2.
And then also there's a 111 friend we
just seen.
This is a P value as you can see.
This the P value is a .
35 and this price is a .63.
Can someone tell me whether or not this
intersep or price?
Is significant.
Are they significant at all?
No.
Or or which one is significant?
OK was that?
No, Mr. yeah. Noah. Noah. Hey.
Why do you think?
Me, Noah.
Why? Why are they significant?
Well, the P value.
Could be statistically significant.
It's usually got to be .05 or less,
and both those are much higher.
Correct.
Right. So yeah, so that's why, right?
So Noah is 100% correct.
So you can basically tell this intercept
and and its prize are are are not
significant, OK.
And and also you can read this regression
statistics, right?
So then the multi multiple or R square
can.
Can someone tell me what this R square
metric is about?
I'm pretty sure you run this regression
model on Excel, right?
So then you you have seen these numbers
quite?
Hopefully you have seen this this this
tables. There's a summary output.
What does this R square tell us?
Anyone knows this R square?
Is that like the correlation?
Sort of.
It's it's sort of like a correlation.
So it's basically R Square tells us how
much of the variation of the Y is
explained by the X OK.
So it sounds really like not.
It sounds really confusing.
What? Really.
Our square telling us is the following.
How much can this acts explain the why?
So this is sort of another metric to tell
us this price information is not
significant at all.
Because.
Having this variable price.
Having this variable price,
you can only explain 3% of the outcome,
so pretty much it's useless.
And and as you can imagine.
So yes,
so this price is not explaining the
outcome.
Let's let's add more, right?
So then let's add more more information.
Let's that's actually fine.
So I have let let me change it.
Let me change another thing.
It's Colby X 234.
Dash 45.
431267 OK, let's say the Y.
OK, that the rerun is analysis again.
Let me just delete those.
So instead of using nodes that just
choose this wise instead easy nodes let
me choose those X.
OK. As you can see.
Still,
the intersection acts those are not
significant. R Square is a better .25 OK.
So you know it's a .25 not significant,
right?
So then let me just add another well,
let's call it X2.
OK.
Let me try to rewr on this regression
again.
So Y is.
Y is still this.
The numbers that we have seen before.
The X will be those two columns and we
still say OK.
We have the labels and then the constant
is a zero. We allow intercept.
So sorry.
This running at.
What's the phone be on?
That we want, OK.
This should be good. OK, OK.
So now we have those.
Let me just delete those chart.
From the P values.
The Intersect the Intercept is not
significant.
XX2 are not significant.
Do you?
So then there are no no significance from
those those those information.
We just input.
However.
The R square is getting better,
so it was .25 and now it's .330%.
What does this tell us?
So this is the number I'm talking about, .
25.
I add another user's variable is .30.
And why we have more power to explain the
why, even though we just add,
we just added one using this variable
user information. How does that?
How can that be true?
And and to verify that let's even
calculate the correlation between those.
Numbers.
X2 and Y.
OK.
So like what?
Let's add that we we just explain those
correlation numbers, right?
So they say correlation. We know .
5 is sort of OK correlation,
meaning they are positively correlated.
So then, however,
if you have only X to explain why you
have only 25% of Y explained or
variability of Y explained here.
I added X2 from.
This correlation is close to is less than
10% is close to.
The fact that they are not even
correlated.
I added this use this uncorrelated
variable. However, I can explain more why.
So there are two.
There is one question.
Why is it happening #2?
Can I explain why a little bit more by
adding another user's variable?
Covari or X4 or X5.
Am I going to increase this R square by
adding more and more variables?
Question one.
Why adding a useless?
Variable increase.
The R square.
#2.
Am I able to explain?
The variability of Y by adding Borax,
for example X12, XA 100.
Anyone has some idea?
Yeah. For question one,
I would say when you have both X and X2,
Mm hmm.
you have more data points.
Mm hmm.
To determine the variance between X&
Y and then for question two,
Sure.
Yep.
I would say yes,
it would increase R-squared if you just
continue to add variables.
Right. Is that OK? OK.
So thank. Thank you.
So then the question being, should I?
Add more X because I agree with you the
question 2 the answer to question two is
yes.
Now yesi, yes.
So then if you add more variables,
the R square could keep increasing.
So the question is so yeah,
so this will observe what we just
observed. The question will be,
should I add more X?
Is that Patrick?
You answer the question, yeah.
That. Yeah, that's Patrick.
Yeah. For this one, I would say no,
because the P value is saying these are
Mm hmm.
not significant variables.
Yeah. So it's sort of like,
thank you so much, Patrick.
I I think you're absolutely right.
So then the answer of Q1 is really coming
back to that causalization and
correlation kind of thing kind of
conversation, right?
So then whenever you add more information,
some of our ability of the Y can be
explained.
Yes or no coincidence.
So then you whenever you add more and
more and more information.
You your Y,
your variability of the Y can be
explained.
So then it can be explained why by by the
RR square.
And you can ask experiment.
You just add random data X1X200.
You only have how many?
9 numbers.
And then you cannot use.
You cannot use more.
You're basically using like two strings
to explain those 9 numbers.
You have a 10 numbers to explain those
numbers,
you're definitely gonna have more
information than you need.
So you will increase the R square by
adding more and more and more variables.
That questions, yes.
And then you should not be doing that
because there is a term of that.
This is called overfeeding.
This is leading to overfitting.
So what's the bad thing of Patrick?
Have you heard overfeeding as a concept?
Yeah.
Yeah. So.
So overfeeding is something that you
definitely gonna avoid because it's sort
of like.
You know, whatever happened perfectly.
You know the history perfectly.
Does not mean you know whatever happened
in the future.
Let me just give you a really bad example.
You're using this X2 data.
This X2 data is sort of like whether or
not the CEO of the company's.
The worrying.
What kind of color of shoes that Co is
wearing?
This Y is the stock price.
Having this color of shoes or color of
socks of the CEO is wearing at the day.
Somewhat, maybe explain the why,
but that is definitely not the causation
of the stock price.
Unless you believe that you know the the
the the shoe color or stock color really
changed the stock price.
It it should not.
But As for the data,
it definitely increase R square and as if
you know that you create a a a impression
that the suck Toler really change the
stock price.
You can explain all historical price
perfectly,
because that spike of stock price is
because that CEO they are.
Wearing a blue sock and another day is
it's a deep it's just because the CEO is
wearing some red socks.
In the future.
So then that's that's the harm of
overfeeding your data.
So that is the reason people invented
another thing that you can find right
below our square is called adjusted R
square, OK.
So you see R square,
you see adjusted R square, the R square.
Is increasing by adding more.
Independent variables, however.
This adjusted R square will analyze the
more variables you are adding.
You, you, you,
you won't feel the same benefit about any
more variable,
especially when those those variables are
not correlated.
So even though this R square increase
from this experiment, one to experiment 2.
You know you move from .25 to .30.
This adjusted R square decrease because
this adjusted R square realized that man,
you're just adding one.
Use this variable.
So if I were you,
I will rely on this adjusted R square
more than R-squared because you'll be
overfitting.
Here and there,
there's there's any real practice.
You cannot avoid overfeeding,
but always focus on the one line one row
below.
That's adjusted.
R Square and see whether or not that
number is increased.
If not.
Likely you're overfeeding,
and I'll tell you a more different
technique to avoid overfeeding,
but this is one of them.
Adjusters elsewhere. OK. Any questions?
So adjust the R square Pyu.
Those are the things that you need to
focus on.
OK, go back to slides.
OK.
So now, now we have a single variable.
Now we have multiple variable that's sort
of like generalize of of the single
variable.
Same idea. You have alpha over betas.
You have more than you have still 1A.
However you have more than one beta,
so you have so many betas.
So this is basically.
A multi variable regression.
So now it's already I'm talking about the
P value T value fyu R square.
So then this is something we talk about
Pyu.
And after that so you can read this
introduction after class.
But I'm not going to dive into those.
Those are cool things that you wanna
learn but not necessary.
You have to handle those. OK. OK.
Let me talk about this right so.
You may not have to remember all those
specific metrics names.
For example, there is a thing called Mae.
There is a thing called mape.
Mape is mean absolute percentage error,
so you have to understand one thing is.
We build a model for some purpose.
We build a model want.
We we want to use a model to predict
future.
Right. So then I I, I I learn.
I learned historical stock prices.
I want to use whenever I learn to predict
tomorrow's stock price to to to to
predict next year stock price,
for example NVIDIA.
So then I can make the decision whether
or not I gonna I gonna buy NVIDIA. Oh,
by the way,
do you guys still believe that NVIDIA is
a good stock to purchase?
Replay.
Yes or no, OK.
No.
No. OK.
Let's use a model to verify that man.
OK.
So.
So you you wanna build a model to predict
the future, OK.
So one way to gauge whether or not your
model works is called a back test back as
back, BACK or holdout test.
So the idea is you need to run a
simulation, right?
So as if you are taking a time machine,
you go back to one year ago.
Right. You go back to one year ago.
You you have the model over there.
You're predicting, for example,
NVIDIA stock price.
And then you want to use that stock
prices based upon your model and compared
against the real actual stock price you
want to compare to your prediction versus
the actual stock price.
Do you hope that the gap between those,
those prices?
As narrow as possible or as big as
possible.
If you do have a model.
As narrow as possible.
Exactly because you want to hope that the
gap is as narrow as possible.
Because not if if the if you're spot on.
There's two cases that will happen.
Number one is there are some knowledge
leakage in your model or #2 is you really
build a really,
really good you know price prediction
model. You should rely on that.
You should buy some money on that and
then you can earn a fortune. Right? So so.
You hope.
The gap is as narrow as possible. However,
you have to know that.
Your prediction of the the NVIDIA stock
could be higher than this NVIDIA stock or
could be lower in this lower than the
Nvidia's actual actual price. And then,
but the gap could be as narrow as
possible.
So that's why we are using a concept
called. You know the absolute value,
right?
So then you want to consider your
prediction is getting the range a
neighborhood of that.
Actual stock price as as narrow as
possible.
Now will be a good performance of your
model,
so that's why we're using this mean
absolute error or or mean absolute
percentage error to to to to assess your
model.
So we are hoping that this Mae number is
as small as possible and this may number
is as small as possible so that you can
have a best model and then?
Whatever model give you the lowest Mae or.
Our lowest Mae.
You are considered as the best model you
can rely on and then and then you can
make some decisions, for example,
whether or not if you buy NVIDIA stock.
So then that's gonna give you a way to
tell you whether or not that model is
great. And we gonna use this, Mae,
we gonna use this map to assess the
linear linear model performance versus.
Neural network model performance versus
LLM.
Model performance versus all different
model performance.
So you're building a system to have an
apple to Apple.
Apples to apples comparison,
we have a model.
Apply the model on the same set of data
predicting future and then we compare the
future versus the actual what actually
has what actually happened and then we
based upon the same metric.
So then we can tell whether a newer
network or large anchor model.
Or whatever AI we're gonna build in the
future.
Why?
Are they really better than a linear
regression model?
OK.
So that is the.
That is the foundation we are building.
We will apply the model on the same data.
We apply the same metric.
So then we'll make sure the models are
comparable.
So that's why I'm introducing those
metrics so that although we're going to
talk about really fancy models,
but that the metrics are still based upon
Mae and Mae or or or RMSE or or or MSE,
those kind of concept.
You do not have to remember those formula.
You just have to remember.
We gonna recalculate the prediction
versus actual amount different models
going forward and those are the metrics
that we can compare one model against
another model.
That's it. OK. Any questions?
No. OK.
Let's keep going.
I think I copy this this OK.
So now let's just see a real live example.
Capital asset pricing model.
Who I talked to the professor Wang.
And then he said you guys should know it.
So should I give you a quiz that about
this model?
OK.
Can someone talk about this Cam model?
Have you use it in real life?
I've used it in the finance class.
OK, sure. Sounds good.
You still remember this model at all.
Yeah,
I mean you you compare the the returns of
the company versus the market using the
beta.
You're right.
Yeah.
So so this model is a fundamental model
like I, I hope you guys learn it.
And then if you don't,
I actually uploaded a paper to the
website.
Content.
OK,
if you have not used this model before so
then there is an article from Pharma
French.
So this is really talking about the camp
model,
the Eugene Pharma and this gentleman in
French.
So those are the two guys really wanted
discovered this model and designed this
model.
And and and then.
How this is this is article how they find
this model OK.
So you can definitely read this article
and you can see there is a alpha there is
there is a free return and is a market
return and the the formula looks like
this.
And then you do when you guys learn this
model,
do you guys ask your question how they
estimate beta at all?
If you compare this formula.
To the formula I introduced for the
single variable model.
Do you think?
Do you find any similarity between this
formula versus the the model formula?
What is the alpha here in the in the
model?
Let me copy here.
You were to compare.
Right. So.
What? What is the alpha in this?
Is the Cam model.
That the risk free rate.
The rectal free rate and what is the ax
in this Cam model?
The market risk premium.
So then and what is this? Why?
Be the expected return on equity.
Exactly this expected return of the
equity.
So then now the question is if if you
were Eugene Farmer and you were commits
French,
how do you estimate the beta if you
believe that the expected return is is a
linear model on top of the risk free
return and the market access return,
how do you?
Access beta.
Let's say you have the data available.
Maybe the company's variance to the
market?
Yeah, yeah. So exactly, exactly so.
You, you,
you have a lot of ways to do that.
And then I I'm pretty sure I I know what
you're talking about.
You're doing the the covariance and that
kind of approach,
so as As for As for engineer the the the
approach really like,
let's run the regression right?
So then you can estimate that this beta
so you can run a regression between.
Expected return minus the risk free
return so that it'll be.
Your per equity access return on top of
the risk free versus the market access
return.
So then you're really running a
regression.
Let me just write in here.
Like re minus RF.
Versus.
This.
Right. So you can simply run a regression.
Your equity return minus a risk free
return against your marketing access
return.
You can access what beta is associated
with that equity.
OK.
So this is a really a linear regression
or a linear model we're talking about
problem and that's exactly how they do it.
Let me just show you one example using
some real data.
For the end of this class. OK,
I do have acapm data.
OK so.
So here's a package that you can use.
It's a Google.
I'm sorry Google Yahoo finance, right?
So you have the Yahoo finance.
I pull the data.
The Microsoft the data right?
So then here and then this GSPC.
So this is the data for SP500 and you can
consider as the market.
So you can you can.
You can put this ticker on Google and
then you can see this SP500 data and then
you can track the five year,
you can track all you can even download
data from from Yahoo Finance.
And and and where is it and and this
Yahoo Finance API or this package is is
is built for you to download the data so
you can consider this a market,
right so then.
As you you have spui 500 data you have
market data.
So then you can calculate for Microsoft
what's the daily return you can calculate
based upon 5SP500 was the daily return,
so then sorry.
So then you have those, right?
There's a.
So that you can quickly run regression
like Microsoft versus market return like
this. So you could market a return.
As for the X and then you could put the
Microsoft As for the Y so you can have
this so they can give you some slope than
like this and then alpha like this so you
can consider this as a restricted
regression.
Let me show you this three factor model.
And then and then and then as I mentioned,
we are actually using free.
So then in this data I'm using this
treasure yield as a risk free rate.
So then I can do Apple.
I can do Microsoft.
I can do different things,
different models,
and you can actually subtract the risk of
free.
So then you can do.
Do the alpha initial view whereas alpha
is.
So you can have the market return,
you have the stock return.
And this is the three factor model.
Let me see.
Yeah. I apologize, maybe.
Here is the camp.
So I'm showing you for Apple.
I'm really calculating the market access
return versus the the stock,
the equity access return.
So then you can actually gauge that you
know for Apple.
What the beta is and then what return
from this CAPM model is so then?
This is going to be your result.
I'll clean U this Cam model Jupiter
notebook a little bit to show you the
chart again.
But next time we can touch base on this,
I create this state Jubilee book,
Jubilee notebook to show you that there
is a three factor model versus the CAPN
which is A1 factor model Y-3 factor model
is performing better and then we can use
those ma.
Those metrics to show that.
I think that'll be it for today.
If you do have time.
Go to the week one.
I do have the article about the farm of
French three factor model over there.
You can definitely read through that
article and see how they come out the
thought and then and experiment to test
the three factor model and which we're
gonna talk in the coming week.
So that is definitely using.
Multi variable regression model,
which as a real life example we're gonna
talk in a in a in a coming week.
OK.
So the finish is we're gonna talk about
that later.
Any questions?
Last next Monday.
Oh yeah, so is there any issue on Monday?
Is there a holiday?
Yeah, it's a holiday.
It's a break.
Is a holiday.
Yeah, we have it off.
I think undergraduate has it all.
Really. Oh my God.
Yeah.
Is that Martin Luther King?
Yeah, we have it off.
Oh, bummer.
OK, I'll I'll contact the department.
No one next Monday is a holiday.
I didn't know that, OK.
All right. So, OK,
I'll I'll contact to contact the the
finance department.
So maybe we gonna change it.
I will send you guys an e-mail, OK?
And then what do we have a is assignment
due or?
No,
we have no assignment due and I'll upload
those Jupiter notebooks that you can
experiment on either GitHub or collab and
then or Kaggle and try those.
Other than that,
I don't think there's any homework due
and in case that we don't have class next
Monday,
so then I will push back all the
assignments one week back so that you
have enough time to finish your homework.
Sounds good.
Well, oh oh,
just keep in mind you just signed up for,
you know,
socialize with your peers in this class
and then create those groups if that you
consider that assignment and then that's
something that maybe you're gonna do
before the before the next class,
no matter is.
This next week or or week after.
OK.
OK, sounds good.
Sorry,
I didn't realize next Monday is a holiday.
All good.
Oh, good. OK, sorry about that.
The reason is we don't have a holiday
next Monday.
We have to go work so.
But anyways OK.
But thank you for reminding me.
I'll contact and I'll send an e-mail to
you guys.
Other than that, good week.
Have a good week and then enjoy the
weekend in case we don't meet on Monday.
Enjoy the enjoy the long weekend next
week this week.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Have a good one.
Thank you, professor. You too.
Thanks. Have a good weekend.
Yeah. Yeah. Talk to you guys next time.
Thank you. Bye.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Yep, sale.
Thanks Eric.
I have a quick question,
if that's alright.
Oh, go ahead.
What's a quick question I'm leaving.
Will you?
Will you post the video recordings onto
D12, or do you have like a syllabusual?
Be posting on the D12.
OK,
I'll need to find where the recording is.
Yeah.
If I just receive the recording and then
I'll, I'll post it on D2L and I honestly.
Gosh,
this is the first time I'm using D2L in
Chicago.
We are using like the blackboard kind of
thing and then here is using D2L.
Mm hmm.
Yeah.
I do not know if there is any like
maximum of the size of the file I can
upload to DTL or or recording is really
like sensitive.
I cannot upload.
I will explore and then if I am able to
upload the recording.
OK.
2T2L.
I will let you guys know.
I will send you guys the link so that you
can always go back and I haven't
determined the the office hour yet,
so just for now,
OK.
whenever you have a question,
you have teams to contact me.
You have my e-mail to contact me.
Mm hmm.
I'm I'm I'm working like.
I hope you know I I'm consulting
background so I work like 12 hours or
more than that a day.
So then send me e-mail any day,
so I'll reply as soon as possible.
OK.
Thank you.
Yeah. So then any question, right?
So then I mean,
this is a really a period of time that we
will building foundations, right?
So then I'm pretty sure it is a
straightforward for you guys,
but however when we entered a newer
network, those kind of models it will.
It may not be as straightforward.
So that any question please ask now.
OK.
Thank you.
And and I I don't like the online kind of
version because I don't see you guys,
Mm hmm.
you know in person will be better.
So send me e-mail,
send me message on teams and then I'll
reply, OK and then and then recording.
I'll upload and I'll I'll explore whether
Thank you.
or not we have class on Monday.
If you don't,
I mean we have one one week free.
Oh my gosh.
This is good.
I mean, this is good.
Perfect. Yes.
Yeah,
I will send a survey to you guys and
hopefully you you can tell me whether or
not this is too much math or is too fuel
math.
I feel not.
Tell me your feedback.
Great. I appreciate it. Thank you.
OK.
Thank you.
Any other questions folks?
Thanks Eric.
Oh, thank you.